In this video I'll show you how to create a template.
So we're going to use a template as essentially an image right.
I want to create my perfect image of what a virtual machine should be like and all of my proper settings
in windows all of the latest updates.
Right nice clean virtual machine.
And so let's pretend that this app VM is some virtual machine that I've installed the right operating
system on maybe I've installed like certain applications that are required on all of my virtual machines
and I've basically gone through and made this virtual machine as perfect as it can possibly be.
Right.
And so now I want to use this VM as the basis for future virtual machines.
This makes it easy to make sure I always have a very nice compliant configuration.
A lot of everything standardized right.
So I'm going to write quick this VM and go to template and there's a couple of options that we can do
here.
Option one is greyed out at the moment but you do have the ability to convert this virtual machine to
a template which basically means I'm going to take the VM the VM will cease to exist it will become
a template and it's grayed out at the moment because I have some other cloning operations happening
on this VM.
So if the VM is powered on or if the VM is in the midst of other cloning operations you can't convert
to a template but you can clone it to a template.
So let's do that.
I'm going to take the app VM.
I'm going to call it app template.
It's going to be the name of my template I'm going to drop it in my training data center I'll put it
on host 13 the same host as the source VM.
And now you can choose the virtual disk format.
I'm going to choose same as source but if you want it to change over to thin provisioned or thick provisioned
at this point you know you can choose all of these different options to choose the big data store.
That's where I'm going to place it.
And I'll go ahead and hit next here.
And it's ready to complete.
So now what's happening is a cloning operation is going on.
You can see here this one that just started.
I had a couple of the ones running for another video.
That's part of this course.
But this most recent clone job is basically taking this app VM creating another VM.
That's exactly the same.
And once that VM is created what you'll see is it'll actually disappear from this view because we are
in the hosts and clusters via.
So if we go over the venoms and templates view once this cloning operation completes you'll see that
this app template will cease to be a virtual machine and it'll be converted over to a template.
So that's what cloned a template does.
It takes a virtual machine.
It creates an exact copy of it then it converts that copy to a template and we can use that template
to create new virtual machines.
So while we're waiting on that process to complete Let's go back to the homescreen of our Vee's for
web point.
And there's something else I want to show you here.
Right here we have our customisations specification manager.
So let's think about what we're doing here.
We're creating one VM and then we're going to use a template to create a bunch of copies of that VM.
Right.
So if we're creating a bunch of copies of the same virtual machine image we can have some problems right.
We might have the same windows SDD and all of those victims.
We might have the same Windows computer name on all of those VM.
And so as I joined them to the domain I'm going to have a problem on my hands I won't have a duplicate
computer names.
So there's a bunch of operating system level stuff that can create some issues for us here.
And so what we can do to make sure our templates work properly is we can create something called the
customisation spec so I'm going to call this Rick Rishi custom spec then I'll hit next and what I'm
going to do I'll call that name will be Rick
Creasey and the organization will be trainer tests that come next.
And now I'm going to enter a computer name so if I deploy a new virtual machine from template I'm going
to give my new virtual machine.
Rick Creasey demo from template are all limitation of character so I'll just call Rikishi demo right
and I'll hit next.
I will put in my Windows license key if I want to.
Right.
And so as I deploy victims from templates that's what the customization spec is going to do.
It's going to go into Windows give the windows a new computer name it's going to go into windows and
establish the license key.
And by the way let's go back to that computer name.
We can just use the virtual machine name right.
So if I'm deploying a new VM from template I have to specify a VM name at that time anyways.
So why don't we just use that name for Windows.
I can set the local windows administrator password to the local admin.
I can configure the time zone anything that I want to run once commands that I want to on once and I
can configure my network settings as well.
So for my network settings do I want this to use DHC pee or do I want to manually specify an IP address.
For this particular virtual machine running if I want to do that I can put in the IP the subnet mask
default gateway all that good stuff my DNS servers as well.
And then once my new virtual machine is completely deployed and this customisation spec has gone through
and modified all of these windows settings I can also have my virtual machine automatically join my
domain.
Right.
So if my domain for example is trayner tests dot com and use your name all color are creeky password.
And this has to be a domain admin account.
And now I can set it up so that when this virtual machine gets deployed it'll automatically join the
domain and it'll automatically get Scrubbs and given a new Windows Exidy right.
Really cool stuff.
So what customisations Spack really is is it's just a bunch of stuff that's going to happen in Windows.
When I deploy a new VM from template it's going to be given a computer name in Windows.
It's going to be given a license key five five configured that it's going to be given a Windows administrator
if I can figure that it's going to be given the network settings that I've configured it's going to
join the domain that I have configured and it's going to get a new Windows as ID.
So this way I can deploy as many VMS as I want from template and they'll all be unique for the settings
that have to be unique in Windows.
So I'm going to go ahead and finish here and now I've created my new customisation spec
so the customisation spec is an absolutely essential part of templates right.
If you're not using your customization spec you're probably spinning up a bunch of virtual machines
with settings in windows that are duplicated.
So not good so I'm going to pause my recording for a moment here and we're going to wait for this virtual
machine to complete being cloned to a template and when it's done we'll pick it back up and watch you
deploy a virtual machine based on that customisations spec.
OK.
So now my template has been created and it's completely created.
And as you can see it is not visible here.
And the hosts and Klosters view.
But if I go to VMT and templates look at what we've got a new template called app template.
So my virtual machine template has been successfully created and now I can utilize it to deploy new
virtual machines.
So that's what I'm going to do.
I get to write it and I'm going to say new VM from this template.
And so what I can now do is I'll create a new VM and my new VM is going to be called trainer tests one
and remember I created a customization spec so whatever name I choose here that's also going to be the
computer name in Windows
I'm going to pick an ESX host to place my new virtual machine on and pick a data store to put it on
as well and go with and provisioned.
I'll choose next and do I want to customize the guest operating system customize the hardware and power
the VMA.
I'm going to choose yes to two of those three options and look at this I can choose my customization
spec or remember that what I just created there.
So this is going to go through windows set the local admin password join this machine to the domain
create a new Windows SITD configure my network settings.
All that good stuff that I'll hit next.
I can customize my hardware this screen so I can give this new VM more memory or less memory or you
know additional hard drives if I want to and I can give it a new hard disk.
So it has multiple VM DKs I can make whatever changes I want to hear go ahead and head next.
And that's really yeah.
Right.
So what's going to happen when I hit finish is a clone of this app template is going to be created.
And when I power on the VM it's going to run through set up right.
And so if you do this in real life when you power it on just be patient.
You know give it a good solid 10 15 minutes walk away take a break or do something else for a little
while because it's actually going to go through the process of booting up running through this prep
rebooting at least once and all that's going to take a while.
And if you interfere with any part of that you might run into some problems.
So once I finish there that's what I'll do.
Right.
I'll just allow it to clone a powered on and then I'll let it run through this prep.
But for the moment I'm actually going to cancel because there's one other thing I want to show you.
So what I can also do here is I can always convert my template back to a virtual machine.
Let's do that.
Let's convert this app template back to a VM so I to pick my host and I'm going to finish and look at
that it's back to being a VM.
Now why would I do that.
Well let's say I created my template six months ago.
And now I need to run Windows Updates on it or I need to install some new application on it.
Right.
I can power it on now.
I can do everything I need to do.
I clean up everything I need to clean up update everything I need to update and when I'm done making
all of those changes I can just go ahead and convert it back to a template.
And so it's really easy to keep these templates updated because I can always just convert them back
to a VM make whatever changes I need to and can refer them back to a template it can't power on a template.
It can't make changes to a template.
Right but what you can do is convert that template to a VM make whatever changes need to then and then
convert it back to a template after the fact.